# Pandas Challenge

[This repository](https://github.com/anulkar/pandas-challenge) contains two Jupyter Notebooks with viewable Pandas DataFrames, details of which are below.

## Heroes of Pymoli
* **Jupyter Notebook**: [HeroesOfPymoli.ipynb](https://github.com/anulkar/pandas-challenge/blob/master/HeroesOfPymoli/HeroesOfPymoli.ipynb)
  * This notebook analyzes the data for a fantasy game called Heroes of Pymoli. The game is free-to-play, but players are encouraged to purchase optional items that enhance their playing experience. Using python and pandas, it breaks down the game's [purchasing data](https://github.com/anulkar/pandas-challenge/blob/master/HeroesOfPymoli/Resources/purchase_data.csv) into meaningful insights.
* **Purchasing Data Insights**
  * Gender Demographics analysis suggests that while majority of the players who played the game and made a purchase were *Male* (**over 84%**), the *Average Purchase Price* as well as *Average Total Purchase Per Person* for *Female* players was slightly higher compared to Male players (**$4+** vs **$3+**). This suggests that the gaming company should promote the game to a Female audience as they are equally (or more) likely to play and purchase options as Male players do, which could potentially lead to higher revenue streams for the company.
  * As far as the Age Demographics is concerned, the data indicates that purchases are largely popular among the 15-29 age group, which constitutes for over **75%** of the total players, out of which almost **45%** are in the 20-24 age group. On the other hand, the *Average Total Purchase per Person* in the under-10 age group as well as the older 35-39 age group is over $4.50 and the highest amongst all age groups, which suggests that the company has an untapped potential market for both younger and older gamers.
  * Comparing the *Most Popular Items* and *Most Profitable Items*, the 5th most popular item - *"Pursuit, Cudgel of Necromancy"* - was purchased **8** times but has a significantly low *Total Purchase Value* of **$8.16**, because the item is priced only at **$1.02**, hence the item is not as profitable as some of the other popular items. The company should review the pricing policy for this item and validate if it's being under-priced, or if there is a strategic reason to keep it under-priced, in order to retain it's popularity.

## Academy of Py
* **Jupyter Notebook**: [PyCitySchools.ipynb](https://github.com/anulkar/pandas-challenge/blob/master/PyCitySchools/PyCitySchools.ipynb) 
  * This notebook analyzes district-wide standardized test results to aid in strategic decision-making regarding future school budgets and priorities. Using python and pandas, it aggregates [students' math and reading scores](https://github.com/anulkar/pandas-challenge/blob/master/PyCitySchools/Resources/students_complete.csv) as well as various information on the [schools they attend](https://github.com/anulkar/pandas-challenge/blob/master/PyCitySchools/Resources/schools_complete.csv) in order to showcase obvious trends in school performance.
* **School Performance Trends**
  * Charter Schools performed significantly better than District schools in terms of the percentage of *Overall Passing Rates* (**95%** vs **73%**). Additionally, District schools performed significantly worse when it came to Math scores, compared to Charter schools. District schools show **~66%** of students having a Passing Math Score compared to **~94%** for Charter. This trend is observed inspite of District schools having higher *Per Student Budget* compared to District schools. The data suggests that District Schools' Budget could potentially be re-allocated towards additional Math-related resources in order to drive higher Math performances for students.
  * On the flip side, there seems to be an inverse correlation between how much money a school is spending and the performance of students. Students in schools that have lower budgets (under **$1.725M**) perform significantly higher in Math, whereas schools that spend over **$1.725M** have a much lower percentage of Passing Math students. The same is true with School Size, where small to medium-sized schools (**<2000** students), demonstrate a much higher *% of Passing Math* students, compared to larger schools (**>2000** students). In general these trends indicate that for schools (and students) to achieve higher % Passing Math scores, the school district should focus on creating and offering a higher number of small-to-medium schools in communities, and spreading the student-base, as opposed to having fewer schools with larger sizes and higher budgets.